 # Wind in the Americas
 ## Potential for Hybrid Cross-Border Offshore Wind Projects in North America
 
---

## Problem Statement:
The North American oceanic territory presents the greatest area of untapped offshore wind capacity in the world (44,000 TWh). Despite this, the coastal regions that lay claim to this potential lie mostly unrecognized. This is true both in terms of public policy and private investment. Further exacerbating this problem is the continued dependency on energy infrastructure that is woefully unprepared for the technological, economic, and societal developments due within the 21st century. 

Offshore Wind presents itself as a renewable energy resource that is both ready and able to provide to large and active populations. Its unique beneficial impact is made obvious in the coastal waters of Europe and the United Kingdom. There, various countries have worked to develop large-scale offshore wind projects by way of innovative means. Hybrid cross-border wind farms have helped bolster the 120+ GW of electricity to be generated by offshore wind in the continent by 2025. These unique projects are proving to be an aid in encouraging greater investment of capital and political energy. The absence of any such project in North America is not simply a missed opportunity but rather alludes to greater challenges in future renewable energy development. 


### Selected Data for Analysis:
**2021 Annual Technology Baseline Cost & Performance: Offshore Wind** <br>
Open Energy Data Initiative | National Renewable Energy Laboratory

**2020 Assessment of the Economic Potential of Offshore Wind in the U.S**. <br>
NREL Data Catalog| National Renewable Energy Laboratory

**2020 North American Energy Consumption Statistics** <br>
EIA Data Library| U.S. Energy Information Administration

---

### Conclusions & Recommendations
The development of renewable energy, even in its simplest form, is a considerably complex undertaking as it bares the influence of many while possessing an impact on all. As such, it is worth first noting that the analysis provided in this project is limited in scope. This is due to several reasons: 1: Weather Data - a vital component for evaluating offshore wind projects - is often unreliable and difficult to gather. 2: Undeveloped regions for offshore wind possess significantly less data than those where projects have already begun. 3: The complex nature of transnational energy projects is also unexplored and predictive models are vulnerable to the inconsistent nature of international politics.

The analysis concludes with the recognition that there is potential in hybrid cross-border wind projects though significant research must be pursued in this area to enable further development. At the level of the United States, the analysis made further apparent the sizeable amount of energy capacity enabled by offshore wind. 

---

### Citations
Numerous sources helped to guide and inspire the code used in this notebook.
<br>
<br>

Beiter, P.; Musial, W.; Kilcher, L.; Maness, M.; Smith, A. (2017). An Assessment of the Economic Potential of Offshore Wind in the United States 
from 2015 to 2030 (Report No. NREL/TP -6A20- 67675 ). Report by National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL). Report for US Department 
of Energy (DOE).

Beiter, Philipp; Musial, Walter; Kilcher, Levi; Maness, Michael; Smith, Aaron (2017): An Assessment of the Economic Potential of Offshore Wind 
in the United States from 2015 to 2030. National Renewable Energy Laboratory. https://data.nrel.gov/submissions/67

National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL). (2021). 2021 Annual Technology Baseline (ATB) Cost and Performance Data for Electricity 
Generation Technologies [data set]. Retrieved from https://dx.doi.org/10.25984/1807473.